From the New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroof. This is the daily.
As the labor [music] market cools and
artificial intelligence booms, many
workers are worrying about what [music]
their place will be in a changing
economy.
My colleague Karen Weise [music] got her
hands on internal strategy documents
from Amazon that offer a glimpse into
that future. [music]
in them. She found that the nation's
second largest employer plans to replace
hundreds of thousands [music] of jobs
with robots. Today, Karen walks me
through Amazon's ambitious [music]
plans and what they could mean for the
American workforce.
It's [music] Monday, November 3rd.
Karen, you know as well as anyone that
we have been hearing for a very long
time that robots are going to be coming
for our jobs, especially at companies
like Amazon. But you've been reporting
on how that moment that we've all been
anticipating is finally here. So tell us
what you found. Yeah. So, I've been
looking into this because covering the
company for as long as I've had, I saw
this huge growth in their headcount in
the number of employees they had. And
then in the past few years, it started
essentially plateauing. So, you could
tell something was starting to happen
behind the scenes.
But I didn't realize how much progress
they had made until I got my hands on
some internal documents. And these are
the internal strategy documents for the
robotics and automation team. It
documents signoffs at the most senior
level of the company and it really
showed the breadth of the ambition that
they have, the progress that they see.
And what I found in these documents is
that they have plans to avoid hiring
more than half a million workers because
of using robots. And big picture, their
long-term goal is to automate 75% of
their operations. That is just
remarkable. Amazon is planning for a
world where [music] only a quarter of
its operations, you're saying, are done
by humans.
>> And it's a really big deal because
Amazon's the second biggest private
employer in the country. And they're
also just seen as kind of a leader, a
flagship employer in the country that
really shapes where jobs are heading.
And so I knew that if they were making
this progress, other companies would
[music] follow.
>> You're saying this matters far beyond
Amazon.
>> Exactly. Yeah. They are kind of a
signature employer of this kind of
hourly workforce. So it's a really big
deal much beyond [music] them. How fast
will this happen? That's a vision for
2033, [music]
but that is only with the advancements
they currently have and Noah. So there's
an expectation that it could even kind
of improve over time.
Okay. So we're talking about massive
change here. But Karen, we know right
that Amazon has been automating for a
while now. So what's different about
this moment? You're right. They have
been automating and using robotics for
more than a decade. But what happened is
they became this enormous employer. In
2018, they had fewer than 400,000 US
employees to more than a million in just
a couple years. So they became so big it
became expensive and hard to keep that
many people cycling through their
buildings. And so you see a focus now on
not augmenting workers but actually
avoiding hiring people so that you are
actually ultimately trying to bring down
the total number of people that you
have.
>> And the other thing that changed is
>> these investments in technology they've
been making over the years began
clicking. You know, it takes several
years to develop strong robotic systems
that actually work. And they've reached
a point where they feel like these
different systems are working. They're
working together and they can begin
rolling them out at scale.
>> And how much does this advancement with
the robots have to do with AI? Like is
AI driving that?
>> Yeah, it does have to do with the robots
because they are getting more
sophisticated and more capable because
of AI. But it also has to do with the
desire to cut costs because Amazon is
spending so much money building AI,
building data centers, you know,
hundreds of billions of dollars and so
they need cash. Got it. So you're saying
basically what's different now is that
Amazon has the capacity actually to
replace people on mass because this
technology has evolved so much partly
thanks to AI and it has the need to do
so in a much more urgent way than it
ever has before also partly because of
its investment in AI. That's exactly
right. So essentially it now makes more
business sense for the company to invest
in robots than in hiring more people.
it's become cost effective. That does
seem like a moment to mark. It also
seems important just to understand how
Amazon got here, how its workforce
became so large that it finds itself in
this position. Tell me about that. Yeah,
so you go back even to 2012 at the time
they had, you know, a handful of
warehouses around the country. You know,
they started with books obviously and
moved into CDs and so they had a a
growing variety of products and Amazon
they have this idea that drives
everything that consumers always want
things faster, they want them cheaper
and they want bigger selection and so
they start focusing on these three
things and all of those end up coming
back to the warehouses because they need
space to be able to sell things and hold
the inventory. particularly when they
started letting merchants sell products
on their website. Delivering things
quickly, that's all about how fast they
can fulfill the orders and get them to
customers. And then also on price that
the more efficient they become, the
lower their costs. And so they start
building more and more warehouses around
the country. And it starts creating
this, they call it a flywheel, their
kind of tech term that the faster things
come, the cheaper the prices are, the
bigger the variety they have, the more
people buy. And that keeps kind of
spinning up and up and people become
more and more loyal to Amazon. And all
of a sudden, you have a company that has
become a major force, a transformative
force in the whole warehousing industry
and delivery industry. And they
basically create it in many ways. It's
not that there aren't other e-commerce
companies, but the operations become the
heart of what Amazon does behind the
scenes and they know that when you see
we can get this to you in 2 days, you
are more likely to buy it.
>> Mhm.
>> They start opening warehouses closer to
pretty much every major city and all of
that creates more jobs and more work
because people are buying more from
Amazon. And how exactly at this point
are robots fitting into this what sounds
like a very successful push toward more
and more efficiency, faster and faster
delivery times. The biggest investment
was in 2012. They bought a company
called KA. And what KA did is the these
little robots that are like a large
hockey puck and they pick up towers of
inventory and they move them to a
worker. And it cut out a lot of the
walking in a warehouse. You used to walk
back and forth across all the aisles to
pick the products and that's annoying
work for a lot of people. It's
exhausting and also it's very slow and
timeconuming. And so by bringing the
products to the people to the pickers
they could start getting a much higher
efficiency out of the labor force. So at
this point early on the effect of
automation is to make this delivery
process as fast as possible. again to
just increase the volume of sales to
help with what you call that flywheel.
That's exactly right. And ultimately it
works and all of a sudden you have a
company that has become a major force, a
transformative force in the whole
warehousing industry and delivery
industry and they basically create it in
many ways. It transforms consumer
expectations and it transforms retailing
and e-commerce broadly. The default way
people come to shop is they know that
Amazon can get it quickly and that
Amazon will get it to them when they say
they can. It becomes very dependable and
it becomes this consumer behavior that
is entwined with how so many people shop
>> and at the same time you have Amazon
adding and adding to its workforce to
make that change possible.
>> That's exactly right. And even then they
were starting to get nervous about this
rapid growth and also just to be able to
hire enough workers. I mean they were
worried about having enough people in
America to employ because their turnover
was really high and in some parts of the
country they were already kind of
working through the available workforce
and they were starting to face more and
more pressure over the working
conditions. You know the work is very
repetitive. You do the same thing over
and over again. You might be reaching up
very high or very low. So there was risk
of strain and repetitive injuries. and
they just started getting a lot of tough
questions about the conditions in their
warehouses.
>> Mhm.
>> And then the pandemic arrives and that
just scramles everything. Doors start
shutting down. We're all home. We're
scared. Our kids aren't at school and
you're buying coloring books and papa
shot basketball hoops. These are all not
hypotheticals from friends that I know.
You know, you're doing things to not go
crazy. You're adults are getting
coloring [laughter] books, you know. Um
and everyone starts shopping online.
Yeah. but they couldn't staff their
warehouses fully and so things started
getting really delayed. Like you would
have two weeks to get an order and
people did start shopping elsewhere.
Like other competitors were gaining
market share because Amazon didn't have
enough workers. And so even as some
workers are staying home, Amazon goes on
this essentially historic hiring spree.
They were hiring at a level that had not
happened outside of like wartime
mobilizations. I remember talking to
labor economists at the time. So it was
just this massive growth and by 2021
they had more than 1.1 million workers
in the United States. And some of those
are absolutely corporate employees and
technology employees. But the heart of
that is the warehouse labor force. And
the cost of labor got very high. and
they started reaching a point where they
were basically not profiting because of
all of this labor expense and
inefficiencies in their operations.
>> Basically, this is the point where
Amazon hits the wall, right? Where very
quickly they find themselves with a much
bigger workforce that not only was very
costly but actually was starting to
affect their bottom line. How do they
respond? So, in this period, Amazon gets
a new CEO. Jeff Bezos becomes executive
chairman and Andy Jasse who had run the
very profitable cloud computing unit now
runs all of Amazon and he starts
focusing very intently on cutting costs.
And part of that was really trying to
look at how can they advance automation
further.
And the automation and robotics team
sets this ambitious goal to not just
augment the work that workers are doing
but to replace them. And that plan is
not [music] hypothetical. I mean it is
happening now and it is being rolled out
around the country.
We'll be right back.
Karen, you said before the break that
basically this plan for robots to start
replacing jobs in a massive way is now
being rolled out across the country. So,
what does that actually look like?
>> So, that looks like a warehouse in
Shreveport, Louisiana that I went to a
couple weeks ago. And this is the most
advanced warehouse Amazon has. And they
see it as a template for future
warehouses.
>> Now, we are going to the east side of
the building.
>> Okay.
>> And that is where we are going to see
how we bring in freight into the
building.
>> So, when I got there, the head of the
warehouse, the manager took me on a tour
of the building. So, we have a first
floor
>> and then you have four floors on top
>> and it's brand new. It's bright. It's
very tall. It's five stories. And you
walk inside and it's super clean.
>> We have about thousand robots in the
building.
>> Thousand. Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> And there's this loud constant humming
of the conveyor belts. Turns out there's
more than 13 miles of conveyor belts in
that building.
>> Wow.
>> But it was also kind of calm because it
it wasn't chaotic. When you have a lot
of workers around, there's usually like
a energy and a vibrancy about it. And
there are big parts of the building that
has have almost no workers. And the
robots themselves are not particularly
loud. It's really just the conveyor
belts that make noise.
>> This is a place where we do
consolidation.
>> So the warehouse manager took me
upstairs and led me to an area with a
fleet of robots. They're called Sparrow.
And each one is quite tall, you know,
taller than me. It has a large yellow
robotic arm that kind of bends over and
reaches into bins. The arm has suction
cups on the end and it uses uh different
parts of the suction cup fingers.
They're sort of like fingers to pick up
items and to put them in another bin and
that helps them consolidate inventory.
And it's pretty funny to watch because
sometimes it's like is it going to drop?
You know, they'll pick up a t-shirt bag
and it starts sagging cuz it's floppy
and then it does make it into the bin.
And sometimes it'll be like, "Hey, I
need help with this product. Can
somebody go help?"
>> Sarah just keeps doing this over and
over again. They're sort of flashing
lights as it takes stock of the
inventory.
>> It it is using the most advanced LLM
models to help us make these decisions.
[music]
>> In the tour, I could really see how you
all these different systems were
orchestrated to work together. If you
had different types of robotic arms,
different ways to move items
robotically, and then also just conveyor
belts and other machines with humans
kind of tapping in and out at different
points. The way the products move
through the building was a whole new way
of thinking. They had completely
rethought the way everything operated in
the warehouse with this eye to
introducing as much automation as
possible. So, this all sounds incredibly
futuristic. I can hear in your voice how
impressive and kind of astounding it was
for you.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> What will it look like for Amazon to
scale up this approach across several
warehouses?
>> Yes. That the automation team said that
that facility gave them the confidence
that they'll be able to quote flatten
Amazon's hiring curve in the next 10
years.
>> Flatten Amazon's hiring curve is
corporate speak for stop hiring. Right.
>> Stop hiring. Exactly. Yeah. Even as they
expect their business to double, they
would need the same number of employees
as today. And so that will mean they're
both going to build new warehouses
starting with this as the baseline and
that they're also going to retrofit
older warehouses so that they'll need
fewer workers to do the same or more
work. They're starting with one in Stone
Mountain, Georgia near Atlanta right
now. And that's a more sensitive thing
because there you're taking a building
that used to have 4,000 employees and
when you introduce the robotics, they
potentially will need 1,200 fewer
workers once they're done. And you know,
Amazon says those numbers are tentative.
Nothing's final. But the reason you do
this is to reduce your need for labor.
>> You're saying Amazon is going to need
far fewer people maintaining robots than
it's going to need packers, pickers on
the warehouse floor.
>> That's exactly right. Yeah. I should
note that Amazon isn't disputing this
reporting. There's kind of two main
things they have to say. One is that
they say the goals of the automation
team don't represent all of the goals of
the company. And so while yes, they may
be focusing on efficiency here, there
might be other parts of the business,
including in their warehousing
operation, that they might grow as they
make more investments in the future. And
an example they pointed to is they've
been building more delivery stations in
areas that are more remote and have a
smaller population. And so those are new
jobs in places that didn't have them and
letting customers in more rural areas
get faster deliveries. The other thing
they say is that they're very focused on
the new jobs that are being created
because of automation and robotics. And
there's a type of role that's
essentially a technician or a mechanic
that works with the robots. and they do
everything from maintenance, they do
repairs, they handle what are called
exceptions, like if the robot drops
something, they are able to safely go
and to deal with all of that. And so
those jobs pay more and they have more
of a career path than a traditional
Amazon warehouse job does. The main
issue is that there just aren't as many
of them when you compare it to the
number of regular hourly worker jobs
that that won't be needed.
>> But it's worth considering some of the
business realities, at least as Amazon
sees them, right? I mean, this company
wants to keep growing, to keep beating
its competitors. And in the past, the
way that it's done that is by hiring a
ton of people, and after a certain
point, the company has found that just
doesn't work. It becomes really
difficult and expensive. So, if Amazon
wants to keep growing and keep its
customers happy, this is a company
that's attempting to solve the very real
problems in its model.
>> Yeah. I mean, they see this as essential
for being competitive in the retail
environment with endlessly demanding
consumers. And some of the projections I
saw in a few years, it'll save 30 cents
per item, which is actually kind of a
lot. And then they can use that 30 cents
to lower costs or to invest in new
things. And at its core, Amazon's reason
for being isn't to be an employer. It's
a customer- ccentric company. and they
see this as a way to grow. I mean,
Amazon is the most advanced in this kind
of push towards automation, but their
competitors are working on it too.
Walmart, UPS, DHL, all these companies
are investing in automation. And so,
this allows them to stay competitive and
to keep offering the faster service, the
more products, the cheaper prices that
we talked about that customers
consistently love. In other words, this
automation is coming, not just at
Amazon, but likely much more broadly. It
just makes too much good business sense
to not do. And so, I guess Karen, that
raises this really pressing question,
right? Which is what does a much more
automated workforce ultimately look
like? What is the balance of jobs and
what does that actually mean for people
who are doing those jobs today? I mean,
you run the risk of kind of this
bifurcation where you lose more of the
baseline hourly work and you gain more
higher skilled, higher paid work. I
mean, in theory, automation is supposed
to get rid of the bad, the mundane, the
boring parts of the job. But it's
unclear how those numbers balance out.
You know, in this case, so far, we're
seeing not as many of those higher
skilled jobs as there would be of the
hourly work. It's also not clear if
they're the same people that can do
them. You know, Amazon has this
apprentice program. They say 5,000
people have gone through it, but you do
have more requirements going into it and
you need to go through training. So, I
mean, they're worried about having
enough people who can do that work, but
it's not necessarily the same person
that might come in and find a typical
Amazon job because you don't need great
English skills because you don't need to
come in with much beyond a clean drug
test and uh being over 18. You know, to
step back, it's probably worth noting
that your reporting is coming at a
moment when the job numbers across the
board in the United States are not as
strong as they once were. And when you
add that picture to what you found, it
sounds like the outlook feels a little
glooier.
I think that's right because when you
have a tough economy, companies look for
more efficiencies and so it creates more
pressure to do exactly this type of
thing regardless of the jobs. And
obviously even though Amazon warehouse
jobs may not be necessarily the best
jobs in the world, they're all jobs. And
for the people who need them, to not
have them, to not have that opportunity,
there is a cost there. Exactly. that
Amazon jobs are known for being there
and accessible in many ways. You know,
they pay above minimum wage, they have
health care, they have parental leave,
they compete with other local employers
for workers. And so when you remove or
over time kind of decrease the pressure
they have on the overall local labor
market, it can have an impact more
broadly. Amazon knows that this is
extremely sensitive and kind of
radioactive in the communities where
they operate. And I saw a bunch of
documents that shows that they are
actively debating how to manage this,
how to communicate with their own
workers, how to communicate with elected
officials and other community members.
They've debated avoiding words like
robot and instead using the term cobot,
which implies collaboration with people.
They've talked about avoiding the word
artificial intelligence. and they know
that this is a scary concept because
Amazon is a signature employer in the
places where they operate and in our
country. Other people look to them for
what the future of work will be and our
nation as a whole is not good at helping
people adjust through these
transformations in the workforce. We
don't have a great way of making sure
the people who otherwise may have been
hired have other job opportunities or
have the job training to be able to do
the new jobs that come out of a more
automated future.
And so that is where the tension is is
you know Amazon is moving forward. it
makes sense for them to try to save this
money here and be able to do other
things with those savings, but they do
have this outsiz impact on society and
in the labor market. And the reality is
there's not a frank conversation about
automation [music] and there's no one
with an overarching plan of how to help
people adapt.
[music]
>> Well, Karen, thanks so much.
Thank you.
[music] We'll be right back.
Here's what else you should know today.
In a ruling on Friday, a federal judge
told the Trump [music] administration
that it must start funding food stamps
this week to keep low-income Americans
fed during the government shutdown.
[music]
It was unclear though if the Trump
administration planned to comply and the
roughly 42 million recipients of the
program [music] were left in the dark
about when they may get their benefits
next.
Late Friday, President Trump wrote in a
social media post [music] that the
administration didn't have the legal
authority to pay for the program and
that the aid would quote unfortunately
[music]
be delayed.
And on Sunday, President Trump appeared
on CBS's 60 Minutes [music] for the
first time in 5 years after suing the
program over its editing of an interview
with Kla Harris. In a wide-ranging
interview, Trump [music] defended his
decision to order nuclear testing, said
he thought ICE raids hadn't gone far
enough, and refused to rule [music] out
land strikes in Venezuela. I think we
should do something about
denuclearization. And I did actually
discuss that with both President Putin
[music] and PresidentQi. We have enough
nuclear weapons to blow up the world 150
times. [music] Trump said that he
discussed denuclearization with Russian
President Vladimir Putin and Chinese
President Xiinping. [music] But he also
claimed without offering evidence that
both countries are conducting nuclear
tests and said he didn't want to be the
only country not doing so.
>> Are we going to [music] war against
Venezuela?
>> I doubt it. I don't think so, but
they've been treating us very badly, not
only on drugs.
>> Trump said that he doubted that the US
military buildup in the Caribbean would
lead to war [music] in Venezuela, but
also said he thought that Venezuelan
President Nicholas Maduro's [music] days
were numbered. Can you set the record
straight? You're not going to try and
run for a third term?
>> Well, I don't even think about it. I
will tell you a lot of people want me to
run, but the difference between us and
the Democrats is we really do have a
strong bench. I don't want to
>> asked to clarify whether he would try to
[music] run for a third term. Trump said
he didn't think about doing so. Even
though he's repeatedly mused about the
prospect, he touted potential Republican
successors, [music] including his vice
president, JD Vance, and Secretary of
State Marco Rubio.
Today's [music] episode was produced by
Diana Wyn, Rob Zipco, Stella Tan, Ricky
Nevetski, and Jessica [music] Chung. It
was edited by Mark George and Brendan
Clinkenberg with help [music] from
Michael Benois.
Contains music by Dan Powell, Diane
Wong, Pat McCusker, [music] and Marian
Lozano. And was engineered by Chris
Wood.
[music]
That's it for the Daily. I'm Natalie
Kitroof. See you tomorrow.